This is the introductory paragraph. In this paragraph I introduce the topic of the case study.
It will be whatever the topic is for the current Unit.
I'll describe the topic in general and then the specific problem that this case study will be about.
This is a good place to mention the article that I'm writing about, including the author and if I'm really good at using Canvas's text editor, a link to the article.
Once that's established, I'll describe my position. It's a clearly defined moral claim about the problem introduced in the article, and I avoid stating it as though it's an opinion or feeling, because the point is to show that it is the most reasonable answer to a moral question I identified from the article.
Next comes the body of the case study.
This is where the real work of the paper shows up.
This is a good place to identify the moral theory that I'm going to use by name, that way it's clear that I know which moral theory I'm applying, and when my paper is graded, my instructor will know what principles of moral reasoning to look for.
I should explain here why I chose this theory. Since I can use any theory that's been covered in the course so far, this will be an easier choice in the beginning of the course, but as more options open up with the later Units, I'll have to decide which moral theory fits the case best and explain why.
I don't have to use the theory that was presented in this Unit. I could use one from a previous Unit, which is why it's important to explain my decision.
Now I'm going to state the moral problem from the article I chose, in terms of the theory I want to use to solve it.
The author of the article I chose probably didn't explicitly use any particular moral theory, so I'll have to take the problem that the author of the article presented, and describe it using the relevant concepts from the moral theory.
This way I can set up the terms I'm going to be using in my argument.
My argument has clear premises.
My premises show that I understand the theory by applying its mechanisms.
I use the same terms in my premises so it's easy to see how they are connected.
Therefore, when I give my conclusion, it's obvious that the premises led to it, and that it is the most reasonable answer to the moral question I initially identified.
I might want to add some further explanation to my argument. Perhaps I want to point out that my conclusion is not a personal opinion or belief.
I stated it as though it is a fact, because I am trying to convince my audience that it is the most reasonable answer to a moral question. Any reader can see that I'm answering the moral question from the article because the conclusion of my argument is the same as my position statement from my introductory paragraph.
Perhaps I also have decided to present my argument in formal premise-conclusion format.
I'm not required to do this, but maybe I think it will help show that I know what I'm talking about, and I know that it's the sort of thing that shows effort and engagement on my part as a student, so I'll do that next.
P1: My argument has clear premises that set up the moral terms of the question.
P2: My premises show that I understand the theory by applying its mechanisms.
P3: I use the same terms across my premises so it's easy to see how they are connected.
C:  Therefore, when I give my conclusion, it's obvious that the premises led to it, and that it is the most reasonable answer to the moral question I initially identified.
Once my argument is laid out and explained if necessary, I should criticize an opposing position.
I'll describe a position that is probably, but not necessarily the opposite of the one I presented as the conclusion of my argument.
Using the same moral terms, I'll give one or two reasons why that opposing position is not the most reasonable answer to the moral question I'm working on in this case study. Perhaps the opposing position depends on a significant misunderstanding of the facts of the case, or perhaps it is the result of misapplying the theory.
I might include a conclusion paragraph, which summarizes my argument and restates my position for extra clarity.
This is also not required, but it's good practice and it's another  thing that shows I'm interested in doing more than the minimum amount of work on this paper. Looking back at the length of it, I'm confident that I showed an appropriate amount of effort, and since I proofread it before submitting I know that it's free of grammar and autocorrect errors.
I'm satisfied that this paper will surely meet all the highest achievement levels in the grading criteria of the case study rubric.
